
			  mapSoN <--> NoSpam
			     Version 1.0


This is a brief instruction on how to compile mapSoN on your Unix
platform of choice. I know how tedious reading manuals is, when you're
eager to try the newly obtained package out, so I'll keep it short.

In order to compile mapSoN successfully, you need the following
utilities installed:

 - a make(1) tool that understands the "include" statement. If your
   vendor's make doesn't you might want to fetch GNU make from any GNU
   mirror.

 - a copy of lex(1) is required, too. Some vendors ship a lex that
   doesn't understand the "-p" option, so if you're experiencing
   problems at compile time, you might want to installed the GNU flex
   utility and use this one instead.

 - The Berkeley DB library (version 1.x!) is used to maintain the
   address database. Most Unixes have libdb as part of their system,
   so this shouldn't be a problem. If you don't have libdb at all, you
   can get it from the following location:

         http://www.sleepycat.com/packages/db.1.86.tar.gz

If you have all these things, you're ready to compile mapSoN. In the
best case, all you'll have to do is to execute "./configure && make"
and that's all. "make install" will install the mapSoN binary and the
manual in info format on your system.

If this fails, you'll usually have to help the configure script to
find the Berkeley db routines. To do this, the following options can
be provided to configure:

 --with-db-include=ARG

	With this option you can specify the directory which contains
	the db.h include file. On newer SGI's, for example, this would
	be: "./configure --with-db-include=/usr/freeware/include".

 --with-db-lib=ARG

	This options tells configure the path and name of the link
	library, which contains the Berkeley db code, most notably the
	dbopen() function call. On the same SGI as above, the call
	was: "./configure --with-db-lib=/usr/freeware/lib/libdb.a".

Other options of configure can be display by calling it with
"./configure --help". All the usual options from GNU autoconfig are
understood, but these options will probably not be relevant unless you
want to customize things like the target directory of the install,
etc...


If you have any problems compiling or running mapSoN, you're welcome
to send me electronic mail at peter.simons@gmd.de and to ask for help.
Alternatively you might want to post to the mapSoN users mailing list,
which can be subscribed by sending the command "SUBSCRIBE MAPSON-L" in
the body of an e-mail to the address listserv@listserv.gmd.de. On this
mailing list, you will also find all kind of discussion, announcements
and more about the mapSoN tool.

Once you have compiled mapSoN correctly, please refer to the mapSoN
user manual, which can be displayed with "info -f mapson" once the
installation procedure ran.

                                   Peter Simons <peter.simons@gmd.de>
